README.md, before:

# VMware Security Assessment Framework

## Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Support](#support)

## Prerequisites

Before using this project, ensure you have:
- Required tools and dependencies
- Proper access credentials
- System requirements met


[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/ci.yml?branch=main&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/actions)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/stargazers)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/issues)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/network)

A comprehensive security assessment framework for VMware vSphere environments, providing automated compliance checks, vulnerability assessments, and security hardening recommendations.

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    VMware Security Assessment Framework                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐              │
│  │   Data Sources  │    │   Assessment    │    │    Reporting    │              │
│  │                 │    │     Engine      │    │     Engine      │              │
│  │ • vCenter API   │◄──►│                 │◄──►│                 │              │
│  │ • ESXi Hosts    │    │ • CIS Checks    │    │ • HTML Reports  │              │
│  │ • VMs Config    │    │ • DISA STIG     │    │ • JSON Export   │              │
│  │ • Logs & Events │    │ • NIST Controls │    │ • CSV Data      │              │
│  └─────────────────┘    │ • Custom Rules  │    │ • PDF Reports   │              │
│                         └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘              │
│                                  │                       │                      │
│                                  ▼                       ▼                      │
│  ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │                        Remediation Guidance                                │ │
│  │              • Step-by-step hardening recommendations                      │ │
│  │              • PowerCLI automation scripts                                 │ │
│  │              • Compliance tracking and validation                          │ │
│  └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Author**: LT - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh)

## 🚀 Features

- **Multi-Standard Compliance**: CIS Benchmarks, DISA STIG, NIST, ISO 27001
- **Automated Assessment**: Comprehensive security posture evaluation
- **Detailed Reporting**: HTML, JSON, CSV, and PDF report formats
- **Remediation Guidance**: Step-by-step hardening recommendations
- **Enterprise Ready**: Scalable for large vSphere deployments
- **Zero Dependencies**: Pure PowerShell implementation
- **Offline Capable**: Works in air-gapped environments

## 📋 Requirements

- PowerShell 5.1 or later (PowerShell 7+ recommended)
- VMware PowerCLI 12.0 or later
- vSphere 6.7 or later
- Appropriate vCenter permissions (Read-only minimum)

## 🔧 Quick Start

### Installation

```powershell
# Clone from GitHub
git clone https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment.git
cd vmware-sec-assessment
Import-Module .\VMwareSecAssessment.psd1
```

### Basic Usage

```powershell
# Connect to vCenter
Connect-VIServer -Server vcenter.example.com

# Run comprehensive security assessment
$assessment = Start-VMwareSecurityAssessment -VCenter "vcenter.example.com" -Standard "CIS"

# Generate detailed report
Export-SecurityReport -Assessment $assessment -Format HTML -Path ".\security-report.html"
```

## 📖 Documentation

- [Installation Guide](docs/INSTALLATION.md)
- [Quick Start Tutorial](docs/QUICK_START.md)
- [API Reference](docs/API.md)
- [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION.md)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- [Wiki](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/wiki)

## 🎯 Supported Assessments

| Standard | Version | Coverage | Status |
|----------|---------|----------|--------|
| CIS VMware vSphere | 8.0 | 100% | ✅ Complete |
| DISA STIG | Latest | 95% | ✅ Complete |
| NIST Cybersecurity Framework | 1.1 | 85% | 🔄 In Progress |
| ISO 27001 | 2013 | 75% | 🔄 In Progress |

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
VMware Security Assessment Framework
├── Core Engine
│   ├── Assessment Orchestrator
│   ├── Compliance Checkers
│   └── Report Generator
├── Standards Library
│   ├── CIS Benchmarks
│   ├── DISA STIG
│   └── Custom Rules
└── Output Modules
    ├── HTML Reports
    ├── JSON Export
    └── Remediation Scripts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🔒 Security

For security concerns, please see our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md).

## 📊 Project Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- VMware Security Team for guidance
- PowerShell Community for best practices
- Security researchers for vulnerability reports

---

**Made with ❤️ for the VMware Security Community**

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on:
- How to submit issues
- How to propose changes
- Code style guidelines
- Review process

## Support

- 📖 [Wiki Documentation](../../wiki)
- 💬 [Discussions](../../discussions)
- 🐛 [Issue Tracker](../../issues)
- 🔒 [Security Policy](SECURITY.md)

---
**Made with ❤️ for the community**

Commit message:

🤖 Amazon Q: Add comprehensive Amazon Q Developer support and integration

README.md, after:

# VMware Security Assessment Framework

## Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Support](#support)

## Prerequisites

Before using this project, ensure you have:
- Required tools and dependencies
- Proper access credentials
- System requirements met


[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/ci.yml?branch=main&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/actions)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/stargazers)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/issues)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/network)

A comprehensive security assessment framework for VMware vSphere environments, providing automated compliance checks, vulnerability assessments, and security hardening recommendations.

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    VMware Security Assessment Framework                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐              │
│  │   Data Sources  │    │   Assessment    │    │    Reporting    │              │
│  │                 │    │     Engine      │    │     Engine      │              │
│  │ • vCenter API   │◄──►│                 │◄──►│                 │              │
│  │ • ESXi Hosts    │    │ • CIS Checks    │    │ • HTML Reports  │              │
│  │ • VMs Config    │    │ • DISA STIG     │    │ • JSON Export   │              │
│  │ • Logs & Events │    │ • NIST Controls │    │ • CSV Data      │              │
│  └─────────────────┘    │ • Custom Rules  │    │ • PDF Reports   │              │
│                         └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘              │
│                                  │                       │                      │
│                                  ▼                       ▼                      │
│  ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │                        Remediation Guidance                                │ │
│  │              • Step-by-step hardening recommendations                      │ │
│  │              • PowerCLI automation scripts                                 │ │
│  │              • Compliance tracking and validation                          │ │
│  └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Author**: LT - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh)

## 🚀 Features

- **Multi-Standard Compliance**: CIS Benchmarks, DISA STIG, NIST, ISO 27001
- **Automated Assessment**: Comprehensive security posture evaluation
- **Detailed Reporting**: HTML, JSON, CSV, and PDF report formats
- **Remediation Guidance**: Step-by-step hardening recommendations
- **Enterprise Ready**: Scalable for large vSphere deployments
- **Zero Dependencies**: Pure PowerShell implementation
- **Offline Capable**: Works in air-gapped environments

## 📋 Requirements

- PowerShell 5.1 or later (PowerShell 7+ recommended)
- VMware PowerCLI 12.0 or later
- vSphere 6.7 or later
- Appropriate vCenter permissions (Read-only minimum)

## 🔧 Quick Start

### Installation

```powershell
# Clone from GitHub
git clone https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment.git
cd vmware-sec-assessment
Import-Module .\VMwareSecAssessment.psd1
```

### Basic Usage

```powershell
# Connect to vCenter
Connect-VIServer -Server vcenter.example.com

# Run comprehensive security assessment
$assessment = Start-VMwareSecurityAssessment -VCenter "vcenter.example.com" -Standard "CIS"

# Generate detailed report
Export-SecurityReport -Assessment $assessment -Format HTML -Path ".\security-report.html"
```

## 📖 Documentation

- [Installation Guide](docs/INSTALLATION.md)
- [Quick Start Tutorial](docs/QUICK_START.md)
- [API Reference](docs/API.md)
- [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION.md)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- [Wiki](https://github.com/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment/wiki)

## 🎯 Supported Assessments

| Standard | Version | Coverage | Status |
|----------|---------|----------|--------|
| CIS VMware vSphere | 8.0 | 100% | ✅ Complete |
| DISA STIG | Latest | 95% | ✅ Complete |
| NIST Cybersecurity Framework | 1.1 | 85% | 🔄 In Progress |
| ISO 27001 | 2013 | 75% | 🔄 In Progress |

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
VMware Security Assessment Framework
├── Core Engine
│   ├── Assessment Orchestrator
│   ├── Compliance Checkers
│   └── Report Generator
├── Standards Library
│   ├── CIS Benchmarks
│   ├── DISA STIG
│   └── Custom Rules
└── Output Modules
    ├── HTML Reports
    ├── JSON Export
    └── Remediation Scripts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🔒 Security

For security concerns, please see our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md).

## 📊 Project Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/uldyssian-sh/vmware-sec-assessment)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- VMware Security Team for guidance
- PowerShell Community for best practices
- Security researchers for vulnerability reports

---

**Made with ❤️ for the VMware Security Community**

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on:
- How to submit issues
- How to propose changes
- Code style guidelines
- Review process

## 🤖 AI Development Support

This repository is optimized for AI-assisted development:
- **Amazon Q Developer**: Enhanced AWS and cloud development assistance
- **GitHub Copilot**: Code completion and suggestions
- **AI-friendly documentation**: Clear structure for better AI understanding

See [AMAZON_Q_INTEGRATION.md](AMAZON_Q_INTEGRATION.md) for detailed setup and usage.

## Support

- 📖 [Wiki Documentation](../../wiki)
- 💬 [Discussions](../../discussions)
- 🐛 [Issue Tracker](../../issues)
- 🔒 [Security Policy](SECURITY.md)

---
**Made with ❤️ for the community**
